Add guidelines about scaling Beats in Cloud Foundry (#22802)
elastic/beats: libbeat/docs/shared-cloudfoundry.asciidoc

[[running-on-cloudfoundry]]
=== Run {beatname_uc} on Cloud Foundry

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
You can use {beatname_uc} on Cloud Foundry to retrieve and ship logs.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
You can use {beatname_uc} on Cloud Foundry to retrieve and ship metrics.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, no build is currently available for this version.

endif::[]

> [float]

Reviewer: I would remove this float attribute, so the section appears in the table of contents on the right side of the page.

> [float]

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ==== Cloud Foundry credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Create Cloud Foundry credentials
```

> {beatname_uc} needs credentials created with UAA so it can connect to loggregator to receive the logs. The `uaac`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to loggregator and receive the logs, {beatname_uc} requires credentials created with UAA. The `uaac`
```

> command will create the required credentials for connecting to loggregator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command creates the required credentials for connecting to loggregator.
```

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
uaac client add {beatname_lc} --name {beatname_lc} --secret changeme --authorized_grant_types client_credentials,refresh_token --authorities doppler.firehose,cloud_controller.admin_read_only
------------------------------------------------

[WARNING]
=======================================
*Use a unique secret:* The `uaac` command shown here is an example. Remember to
replace `changeme` with your secret, and update the +{beatname_lc}.yml+ file to
use your chosen secret.
=======================================

> [float]

Reviewer: I would remove this float attribute, so the section appears in the table of contents on the right side of the page.

> ==== Cloud Foundry deploy manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Download Cloud Foundry deploy manifests
```

You deploy {beatname_uc} as an application with no route.

Cloud Foundry requires that 3 files exist inside of a directory to allow {beatname_uc} to be pushed. The commands
below provide the basic steps for getting it up and running.

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
cd {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/cloudfoundry/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
# Update api_address, client_id, client_secret in downloaded {beatname_lc}.
curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/beats/{branch}/deploy/cloudfoundry/{beatname_lc}/manifest.yml
------------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: Do we need to add a note here to state that the user needs to overwrite the default {beatname_lc}.yml file with the one they have just downloaded?

Author: Moveds the comment in the code block to a new paragraph after it, let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Looks great!

> [float]

Reviewer: I would remove this float attribute, so the section appears in the table of contents on the right side of the page.

> ==== Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Deploy {beatname_uc}
```

To deploy {beatname_uc} to Cloud Foundry, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
cf push
------------------------------------------------

To check the status, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
$ cf apps

name       requested state   instances   memory   disk   urls
{beatname_lc}   started           1/1         512M     1G
------------------------------------------------

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
Log events should start flowing to Elasticsearch.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]
Metric events should start flowing to Elasticsearch.
endif::[]
The events are annotated with metadata added by the <<add-cloudfoundry-metadata>> processor.

> [float]

Reviewer: I would remove this float attribute, so the section appears in the table of contents on the right side of the page.

> === Scaling {beatname_uc}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Scale {beatname_uc}
```

> A single instance of {beatname_uc} is able to ship more than 100 thousand events

Reviewer 2: Nit: mix of number and cardinal. 
```suggestion
A single instance of {beatname_uc} is able to ship more than hundred thousand events
```

> A single instance of {beatname_uc} is able to ship more than hundred thousand events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single instance of {beatname_uc} can ship more than a hundred thousand events
```

per minute. If your Cloud Foundry deployment is producing more events than

> {beatname_uc} can collect and ship, the Firehose will start dropping events and it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{beatname_uc} can collect and ship, the Firehose will start dropping events, and it
```

> will mark {beatname_uc} as slow consumer. If problems persist, {beatname_uc} may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will mark {beatname_uc} as a slow consumer. If the problems persist, {beatname_uc} may
```

be disconnected from the Firehose.

> In these cases, you will need to scale {beatname_uc} to avoid losing events, find

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In such cases, you will need to scale {beatname_uc} to avoid losing events. 
```

> In these cases, you will need to scale {beatname_uc} to avoid losing events, find
> here some guidelines about how to do it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In such cases, you will need to scale {beatname_uc} to avoid losing events.
```

The main settings you need to take into account are:

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
* The `shard_id` specified in the `cloudfoundry` input configuration. The

>   firehose will divide the events between all the {beatname_uc} instances with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Firehose will divide the events between all the {beatname_uc} instances with
```

  should have the same configuration.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="metricbeat"]

> * The `shard_id` specified in the `cloudfoundry` module. The

Reviewer: Should we link to this page in the module doc?

* The `shard_id` specified in the `cloudfoundry` module. The

>   firehose will divide the events between all the {beatname_uc} instances with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Firehose will divide the events between all the {beatname_uc} instances with
```

>   the same value for this setting. All the instances with the same `shard_id`
>   should have the same configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the same value for this setting. All instances with the same `shard_id`
  should have the same configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: I think by "same configuration" you mean same configuration for things like processors, etc., right? Should we clarify this here?

* Number of {beatname_uc} instances. When {beatname_uc} is deployed as a Cloud

>   Foundry application, it can be scaled up and down as any other application,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Foundry application, it can be scaled up and down like any other application,
```

  Foundry application, it can be scaled up and down as any other application,
  with `cf scale` or by specifying the number of instances in the manifest.

> * Output configuration. In some cases, you can fine-tune the output

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/configuring-output.html (in a Beat-agnostic way)?

>   configuration to improve the events throughput. The number of workers is
>   important to take better advantage of the available resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  configuration to improve the events throughput. Some outputs support multiple workers. The number of workers can be changed to take better advantage of the available resources.
```

Some basic recommendations to adjust these settings when {beatname_uc} is not
able to collect all events:

* If {beatname_uc} is hitting its CPU limits, you will need to increase the

>   number of instances.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth clarifying if you mean number of CPU instances (in case of virtual/container environments) or number of `{beatname_uc}` instances.

* If {beatname_uc} has some spare CPU, there may be some backpressure from the
  output. Try to increase the number of workers in the output. If this doesn't

>   help, the bottle-neck may be in the network or in Elasticsearch. When other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  help, the bottleneck may be in the network or in the output technology. When other
```

I don't like the word "technology" that I used. But I don't want to just say "output" either as it is ambiguous whether it's the output in Beat or the actual output technology the Beat is connecting to.

>   help, the bottle-neck may be in the network or in Elasticsearch. When other
>   outputs than Elasticsearch are used, similar recommendations apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  help, the bottleneck may be in the network or in the output technology.
```

I don't like the word "technology" that I used. But I don't want to just say "output" either as it is ambiguous whether it's the output in Beat or the actual output technology the Beat is connecting to.

Author: I have rephrased it using "the service receiving the events" instead of "technology".

> * If {beatname_uc} is hitting memory limits, increase the memory limit. After
>   adjusting memory limits, if {beatname_uc} is still unable to collect all
>   events, check the other recommendations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If {beatname_uc} is hitting memory limits, increase the memory limit.
```

I think we can remove the last sentence as it is generally applicable to every recommendation, no?

Author: I would like to keep a point about memory. I have added more information, and rephrased it to look less Mr. Obvious:tm: :slightly_smiling_face:
